---
layout: post
title: "Week 5-6: A combined Blog"
description: Why this Blog!
headline: 
modified: 2017-07-09
category: GSOC
tags: [GSOC cwltool schema-salad]
imagefeature: two-fingers.jpg
comments: true
mathjax: 
---

GSOC'17 Fifth and Sixth Week: 26 June 2017- 09 July 2017


This is a combined blog for last two weeks so this is going to be a little longer than usual. So In the past two weeks I worked on **Docker Compatibility on Windows** and **passing conformance tests on Windows Machine**. Some of the interesting things that I worked on were:  

**`InlineJavascriptRequirement`** As in previous blog I mentioned that to evaluate javascript expression present in our `CommandLineTool`, we are creating a nodejs process(either natively or through Docker). On unix system we used `select` module to process multiple expression using same process using Non-blocking I/O operations, on windows it was not possible. Although threads gave some hope but they also blocked `joining` because they were continuously using `read` operation. I tried multiprocessing but again they caused problems because of `pickling`, as pickle library can't pickle `subprocess object`. I raised this question on Stack Overflow, if you want to have a look, go [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/44866552/python-2-7-windowsunable-to-read-one-processnot-host-stdout-from-host-process). So finally we decided to process each `javascript expression` in its own process and long term solution would be integrate javascript engine directly as suggested by Peter. The most interesting part was to find out that windows and Linux have quite different process definiton and implementation, while linux allows process to share I/O buffer with other process, windows doesn't. We also added a `conformance-test` for multiple Javascript expression [here](https://github.com/common-workflow-language/common-workflow-language/pull/467) 

**Default Docker Container** In order to run `workflows/tools` on windows machine we will be using a default docker Container, in case a user doesn't provide a docker container. It is being discussed as what kind of default container would be suitable, as of now I am using `ubuntu` image for default docker. I faced some issues in some this regard as in current implementation `default-container` was overriding container provided in `hints`. Another issue was that a `default-container` was not propogated to workflows steps. We solved this problem in this [commit](https://github.com/common-workflow-language/cwltool/pull/419/commits/050899711e75cf06092acd1943a61e3a429d59f5). Now the current order of `priority` and `strict-checking` of Docker container specification is as below:
* `Requirements`: Priority-Highest, Strict-checking-> Yes 
* `Hints`: Priority-below requirements, Strict-checking-> No
* `Default-Container`: Priority-below Hints, Strict-checking-> Yes  

**Windows Newline character CRLF** This is very interesting. When usually we checkout a github repository, Line ending of text files are automatically modified based on user's machine OS.(unless you have specified in your git settings ex `core.autocrlf`). For most of the projects this is a very nice feature but in our case since we are using these files to generate checksum which is used to compare our results. Due to this extra `Carriage Return(CR)` char on windows that checksum turns out to be incorrect. If you also face such situation, you need to reset your repository, removing previous setting and create a `.gitattributes` file(see [here](https://github.com/common-workflow-language/common-workflow-language/pull/474)) specifying the files for which you dont need auto conversion of line endings like `*.txt text eol=lf`  

Some Docker specification were also added to conformance test, that would allow them to run in Windows OS also. see [here](https://github.com/common-workflow-language/common-workflow-language/pull/475). Few previous [commits](https://github.com/common-workflow-language/common-workflow-language/pull/408) were also merged.

In the upcoming week, we would be working on `runtime and input path conversion to Docker suitable path on Windows OS`, `removing Windows Drive letter from Docker's local path` and `Merging our progress to Master Branch`. Also I must think about what would I do in the next half of GSOC period. 
