---
layout: post
title: "Week 4: A Long Week"
description: Why this Blog!
headline: 
modified: 2017-06-25
category: GSOC
tags: [GSOC cwltool schema-salad]
imagefeature: cover5.jpg
comments: true
mathjax: 
---

GSOC'17 Fourth Week: 19 June 2017- 25 June 2017


This week I started work on docker support on Windows platform. As `CommandLineTool` that implement a functionality like `ShellCommandRequirement` we would be using docker container for such Tools/workflows. There were little problems like `geteuid` is not available on windows which were passing to docker and some major problem like, when passing commands to docker all `files` and `volume` were as per windows path notation and these commands are executed by `docker engine` which run on a slim linux environment provided by `docker-machine` and thus expects unix-style paths. Moreover you can't put `:` in your path as for some region docker-engine uses `:` to separate different parts of filepath. In first half I solved these problems.  

Later we decided to run `conformance-tests` on Windows, so we choose `Appveyor` for this. On some research I found that you can configure multiple Appveyor projects pointing to same github repository. So another appveyor project `cwltool-conformance-test` was created with a custom appveyor file. On `Jenkins` we use `run-tests.sh` to run conformance tests which won't run on windows so we used `cwltest` command line to run tests. Here is the [conformance test report](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/kapilkd13/cwltool-072w7/build/.20-conformance/job/qmcc28jn7fjcmwqg). One problem is that we can't show two appveyor status report on github and either the `cwltool` unit test or `conformance test` will be visible. Issue raised regarding this is [here](http://help.appveyor.com/discussions/kb/4-show-multiple-statuses-in-github-pull-requests) and [here](https://github.com/appveyor/ci/issues/1083).  

On conformance tests one of the reason behind test failure was unsupported `Non Blocking I/O read for windows by select module`. I tried with `msvcrt`, `pywin32` and `gevent` but `read/write` operations from `stdin/stdout` was not allowed. Finally I used `threads` to implement this as a subprocess would be too heavy. I wrote a SO [answer](https://stackoverflow.com/a/44766634/5256519) if anyone else faces such situation. here is the [PR](https://github.com/common-workflow-language/cwltool/pull/419)

This week I would continue to work on docker support on windows.
