---
layout: post
title: 'Week 0: Spartans! Prepare for Glory'
description: Why this Blog!
headline: 
modified: 2017-05-29
category: GSOC
tags: [GSOC cwltool schema-salad]
imagefeature: cover1.jpg
comments: true
mathjax: 
---

This is the last week before GSOC17's coding season officially starts and I can already feel the deadline. I started this week by setting my Jekyll Blog. I want to use this blog beyond GSOC purpose and therefore I invested some time in it.  
Later this week I and my mentors decided that I would start my GSOC contribution with **Windows compatibility for schema-salad and cwltool**.  
I utilized the later part of this week in setting up my windows environment(though I still need to upgrade my windows 8 to 10 for native docker support). Although official time period is over,one can still upgrade to windows 10 by following instructions [here]( https://www.howtogeek.com/225048/how-to-upgrade-from-windows-7-or-8-to-windows-10-right-now/)  
Since a CWL's **CommandLineTool** may use Posix native tools, all such workflows would run on Linux based docker container. I spent lot of time in searching for a CI application(for Windows) that would allow us to create linux docker image inside windows os. Sadly there are only handful of windows based CI tools available. We choose Appveyor for this. I [tried creating Linux docker]( https://ci.appveyor.com/project/kapilkd13/testdocker/history) inside Appveyor's Windows Server 16 but Appveyor don't allow linux docker image. I tried  
* Creating docker image from a base image
* Pulling docker image from docker store
* Creating debian image from scratch  
Finally appveyor.yml file was made to initiate testing on Appveyor CI. All further developments will be pushed on this [branch]( https://github.com/common-workflow-language/schema_salad/pull/110)  
In the upcoming week I would look for issues that's preventing us from windows compatibility for schema-salad and would try to solve these issues without causing regression or any other conflict. I would update my progress on this [checklist](https://github.com/common-workflow-language/schema_salad/issues/104)  
Hoping for an eventful and interesting GSOC 17!!. 

