---
layout: post
title: "Week 10-11: Enhancing Cwltool"
description: Why this Blog!
headline: 
modified: 2017-07-31
category: GSOC
tags: [GSOC cwltool schema-salad CWL]
imagefeature: lego.jpg
comments: true
mathjax: 
---

GSOC'17 Tenth and Eleventh Week: 1 Aug 2017- 14 Aug 2017


We started our week with working on `Python 3 compatibility for cwltool on windows`. While working on this we encountered issues like `avro-cwl package was downloaded as egg`, `hardcoded path in past module`, `Cryptogen (random generator) for python not working`. This issue involves 3 PR's:
* A pull request to `avro-cwl`: We disabled `zip_safe` flag so that this package do not get installed as .egg file. here is the [PR](https://github.com/common-workflow-language/avro/pull/1).
* A pull request to `Past` module: We are using `past` module to run `avro` library which is python 2 compatible to run on python 3. In past module some of the paths were harcoded and required the presence of `tmp` folder in the Drive's root. We made a correcting PR and hopes that it will be merged as soon as possible. Here is the [PR](https://github.com/PythonCharmers/python-future/pull/296).
* A pull request for python3 comaptibility to cwltool: Here we made some changes to `appveyor` file, added `SYSTEMROOT` as an env variable when making jobs and resolved some python 3 issues that arised due to different encoding used. Here is the corresponding [PR](https://github.com/common-workflow-language/cwltool/pull/511).

After these PR's, windows documentation needed some modification. Here is the corresponding [PR](https://github.com/common-workflow-language/cwltool/pull/521), currently under work in progress.


Later we worked on `Loading Input over Http/s` feature. Earlier we used to load `workflows` over http but input files were still needed to be present locally. In this [PR](https://github.com/common-workflow-language/cwltool/pull/507) we added a feature to load inputs over http. File caching is used to avoid downloading files again and again. A unit test was added for this feature.

Some minor issues were also addressed like `unavailability of message field inside exceptions on cwltest`, corresponding [PR](https://github.com/common-workflow-language/cwltest/pull/30) and `raising the min version required of request module`.

This week I would be working on `caching` issues on cwltool. I am also trying to run cwltool from inside `Ipython Notebook` but haven't reached any concrete results yet, I will try getting this to work.