---
layout: post
title: "Week 5 & 6: Coding Period!!"
description: Coding Period week 5 and 6
headline:
modified: 2018-06-23
category: GSOC
tags: [GSOC INCF Brian NeuroML]
imagefeature: week1.jpg
comments: true
mathjax:
---

GSOC'18 Coding Period Week 5 & 6: 10 June 2018- 23 June 2018


In last two weeks we worked on improving and modifying our current libbrary.

We uploaded a conda recipe for libNeuroML library as we are using it in our nmlimport library. Here is the [corresponding PR](https://github.com/kapilkd13/stage-recipes/blob/libneuroml/recipes/libneuroml/meta.yaml). This PR got merged this week and now we have a conda-recipe for libNeuroML. Next we modified our test script that better suits our needs now.

Later we added support for importing SegmentGroup information from .nml file. Each segmentGroup is a collection of segments, represented by their segment ids. A mapping was done between segment ids specified in neuroml file and the ids those segments got when they are imported in Brian. Here is the [corresponding commit](https://github.com/brian-team/brian2tools/pull/17/commits/e7b7e22a134f0fe1aca5e08d97d812de0b00f15a).

Then we modified our current implementation of morphology extraction and now we generate a sectionTree of all the segments and then create morphology through it. This step allows us to to create section of segments and work with fractionAlong value of 0. See [this commit](https://github.com/brian-team/brian2tools/pull/17/commits/c5168a84bce93119d35a51553d52b31415018f2f).

Later we decided to move all our current implemention to a class so that we can store the current state of object and need not process the files again and again to retrieve same values. Now each .nml files create a object that have all the necessary values precomputed.

Next week I would be working on code cleaning, writing documentation and generating a user guide on sphinx for our users describing the use of our library.

Keep Coding!!
